there are so many templates out there do
you really need to pay someone to help
you with your landing page designs hey
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
going to break down if you should design
your own landing page from scratch or
use templates
which one sells more
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
when you design your landing page from
scratch you'll have higher costs
a few skills that are involved that you
need when you're designing from scratch
one you need a designer a copywriter a
marketer and a developer in essence four
things now if you can do them all
yourselves great if not you're gonna
have to hire out from
low time and speed become harder to
manage as you have to optimize
everything you have to compress your own
images optimize your code for load time
and performance a study on landing page
conversion rates and site speed by
portland showed that website conversion
rates dropped by average of 4.42 percent
with each additional second of load time
between zero seconds and five seconds
you'll also do a lot of a b testing to
figure out what's causing the best
conversion rates and what elements on
your landing pages are causing the
conversion rates to drop and chances are
you're going to have greater odds of
failure because there are a lot of small
things that you need to do right
and that's what makes it really
difficult when you're designing and
creating your own landing pages
if you've done this so many times yeah
you probably know what to do but if you
haven't done it many times then you're
gonna have to make a lot of changes and
tweaks and constantly tests now on the
flip side when you use landing page
templates
most companies that offer templates
offer ones that are battle tested in
other words if you have a book that
you're selling they have book landing
pages if you have a sas product that
you're selling they have sas landing
pages and if you have a service based
business they have service based landing
pages that other people have tested and
they're tracking what's working what's
not they'll look at the conversion rates
from all the landing pages and see what
improvements affect conversion rates and
what improvements decrease conversion
rates you won't have to worry about load
time as much speed as much or even image
sizes all you have to do is focus on the
marketing side which is driving traffic
to your landing pages
some platforms out there to check out
that already have landing pages are lead
pages unbounce click funnels instapage
hubspot
now if you ask me neil
should i create a landing page from
scratch or should i use a template
what we've typically found is if you're
a new business you haven't done much
marketing go with the landing page
templates because if you do that you'll
know where to start and you're better
off but if you have a large company
you're doing millions and millions of
dollars in revenue heck even millions in
profits and you've done marketing you
have your own marketing team what i
would recommend is you still look at the
landing page templates but you have your
own team building
what you're doing is you're looking to
see what's working and then you're doing
your own customized version of it that
way you're not starting from scratch but
then you're not using that quote-unquote
generic template that everyone else is
using and it's a little bit more
customized
so in essence you know you would still
use the templates whether you have a big
business or a small business but more so
for the bigger businesses you're still
designing it from scratch but using the
template as more so of a starting point
so that way you know what to build
that'll work versus having to run all
these tests from scratch and worry about
copy and you know all these elements
that are gonna just take forever to
create from scratch
if you need help with your landing pages
your conversion optimizations check out
my ad agency np digital where we'll just
do the marketing for you if you have any
questions you can leave a comment below
i'm always here to help if you enjoyed
the video like it share it tell people
about it thank you for watching